The beautiful parish church of San Nicola di Bari, 
decorated in dark grey tufo stone, overlooking the 
Piazza Marco Galdi, originates from the eleventh 
century. Following structural damage by earth-
quakes, the Church was completely reconstructed 
five hundred years later, in the sixteenth century. 
Above the main door can be found a ceramic panel 
depicting its protector, San Nicola di Bari. Inside 
are three naves where, even though the Church has 
suffered much from theft, can still be found valu-
able works of art. One of these is a statue of The 
Immacolata (The Virgin Mary) by Alfonso Bal-
zico, donated by Lucia Pastore, whilst on the ceil-
ing there is a picture by Sessa, dating from 1714. 
Above the High Altar, presently undergoing resto-
ration, can be found a polyptych. There is also a 
sculpted bust by Ferace of the poet Marco Galdi 
(1880-1936), who is famous locally for his Latin 
verse. Next to the Church is the large, but elegant, 
bell-tower, built in 1564 by the architect Fabio De 
Baldo from a design by Pignoloso Cafaro. It is one 
of the marvellous buildings, constructed during the 
sixteenth century, that made the City of Cava so 
famous in the area.