Founded around 1020 AD, with the passing of 
time, the Abbey of Badia acquired considerable 
feudal and jurisdictional rights. For centuries, the 
history of the City of Cava has been intimately 
linked with that of the Abbey and the small, forti-
fied town of Corpo di Badia that stands on the hill 
overlooking it. Necessities of feudal power en-
couraged the Abbot to transfer his economic and 
administrative activities to the narrow road that 
wound through the valley below. A small town, the 
Borgo Scacciaventi (literally, the Breezy City) 
with craftsmen and merchants rapidly sprang up. 
Over time, their small shops and workshops devel-
oped into large buildings, decorated with covered 
arcades to protect the vendors' goods. Urbanism 
and the continuing expansion of the City have left 
their marks on the arches and ceilings of the cov-
ered walkways. Little planning has gone into the 
development of the area over the centuries, houses 
being built solely on the demands of space and 
commercial necessity. Even today, the local archi-
tecture retains its traditional style of impressive 
buildings and porticos.