The strange shaped Mount San Liberatore, with its 
characteristic humpbacked outline, rises only to a 
height of 466 metres but dominates the view of 
Cava and offers a superb view of the Bay of 
Salerno, the start of the Amalfi coast, and the Tyr-
rhenian Sea. On the slopes facing Cava and 
Salerno it is covered in typical Mediterranean 
vegetation (rosemary, myrtle, arbutus, and small 
oaks), but is more rugged and bleaker on the Vietri 
side. Here can be found a rock-climbing centre, 
built on the site of the tenth century chapel of San 
Liberatore, linked to a closed Order of Benedictine 
nuns. In the fourteenth century, these nuns were 
transferred to Salerno, and the chapel of San Lib-
eratore fell into disrepair. At the start of this cen-
tury, under the encouragement of a local parish 
priest, Don Giorgio Salerno, citizens of Cava be-
gan restoration work, with the local artist, Matteo 
Apicella, providing a painting of "Cristo Re" for 
the gateway to the chapel ruins. Of the original 
chapel, continually ransacked by thieves, only the 
small southern nave remains. A few minutes walk 
away, at the top of the Mount, can be found a large 
cross in iron, which is occasionally lit up. Also to 
be found, though now barely visible, are the re-
mains of a watchtower, used by the local inhabi-
tants to warn against incursions by pirates and 
other unwelcome visitors. According to documents 
dating back to the sixteenth century, this tower was 
in use as a lookout point at the time, for the view 
was, and still is, "of superb majesty, unreal, 
unique."