In 1702, Domenico Campanile and Carlo Cristiano 
established the parish of St. Cesareo on the road 
between the villages of St. Cesareo di Cava and 
Dragonea di Vietri. It started following a conver-
sation with a person who claimed that he had en-
countered a strange event on the road to Dragonea. 
According to this person, a man he met had disap-
peared into a puff of smoke when the name of the 
Madonna was mentioned. Popular belief at the 
time was that this man must have been a local de-
mon, who had come out from a cave close by. 
Thus it was decided that there was an urgent need 
to build a chapel in the area to secure the local 
population from evil. Following Church adminis-
trative reorganisations, when the Parish of St Ce-
sareo (containing Avvocatella) was absorbed into 
the new Diocese of Badia di Cava, a number of in-
cidents of possession by demons occurred which 
were exorcised by the local monks. The place 
quickly became a place of pilgrimage for people 
from all over Italy. Today, there is still an annual 
procession where up to seven thousand pilgrims 
march in honour of the Madonna.