At the end of the eleventh century, on the orders of 
Pietro III "The Builder", Abbot of the Benedictine 
Monastery of the Holy Trinity, Badia, were built a 
hospital and hospice for pilgrims, along with forti-
fications (walls and portals) for the adjacent small 
town of Corpo di Badia. The town still retains 
some of its early medieval characteristics, espe-
cially the remains of the Wall of Manfredi and the 
Main Gate. During the war between the Svevi and 
the Angevins, in 1265, the town of Corpo di Badia 
was captured briefly by Angevin troops and, fol-
lowing its retake by Manfredi of Svevia, the walls 
that had earlier been built were, in part, torn down 
again. A hundred years later, at the end of the 
fourteenth century, the walls were once more re-
built, this time equipped  with towers to defend 
against increasing incursions by Spanish invasion. 
It is still possible to make out the marble coat-of-
arms of the Ferranti family, dated 1496, on the 
fortifications. The walls are still visible today from 
the new road that hugs the medieval aqueduct that 
runs around one side of the old town.