Errico de Marinis, was born in 1863 and died 
in 1919, aged fifty-six. He was a noted politi-
cian, journalist, and sociologist, and as a 
young man published a book of poetry. At the 
age of thirty, in 1893, he was appointed to the 
Chair of Legal Philosophy at the University of 
Naples, and two years later, at the age of 
thirty-two, was elected to parliament, where he 
retained his seat for the next twenty-five years. 
In 1898, at the University of Naples, he was 
given the first Chair of Sociology to be set up 
in Italy, where he wrote and published "The 
System of Sociology", in 1901. Four years 
later, in 1905, he started "The Spectator" 
magazine with co-founder Scipione Borghese. 
From 1905 until 1908, he was charged with 
overseeing developments at the Ministry for 
Public Education. He was instrumental in the 
setting up, in 1912, of the Manifattura dei 
Tabachi, and was a signatory to the constitu-
tional Manifesto of the Italian Workers' Party.